[MUSIC]
Now, what have we learned in
all this work on Bin packing?
We have learned one very novel technique,
Adaptive rounding of the Input.
Not rounding to the nearest integer or
to the nearest fraction of an integer
as in Knapsack, but the rounding that
depends on the rest of the input.
That's one technique that is very
useful for simplifying the input.
Comes up in many problems where
the input is a set of numbers.
The other technique that we have
used is the Russian Dolls technique.
The inner most doll was,
solving the problem in the special case,
where items were large and
there were few distinct sizes.
Close the doll.
The doll outside it was
an algorithm in the case where all
item were large, all item were large,
but not necessarily few distinct items.
We could have many different sizes.
And then, we closed that doll and we got
the outermost doll, through a general case
where there's no assumption on the item
sizes, and a number of distinct items.
So, the Russian dolls technique
is also a technique of
successive reductions, if you want to
use more sophisticated terminology.
Russian dolls, good to remember.
These techniques are very useful,
in general, in the design of algorithms.
There are many variants of Bin packing.
Bin packing is just one simple
case of problems that come up
in many instances of combinatorial
optimization and operations research.
There are some variants in two-dimensions
when the input is not a number,
but it's a square or rectangle.
Three dimensions, each input items
consist of three numbers instead of one.
There are variants where the item arrived
online over time in an online fashion and
you have to decide where to place them,
and
when to close bins before you
see an entire set of items.
Many versions of Bin packing
have been studied over the past.
If you look at studies where
people prove theorems,
rigorous results about Bin packing,
who contributed to this?
Let's see.
This is a familiar picture.
You know who this is now.
Nick Karp.
You know what he's most famous for?
His 1972 paper on NP-complete problems.
Well, Bin packing was one of them.
So he was a pioneer who proved that
this problem is hardly general.
Other pioneers, Johnson and Ullman.
They were the first ones to design and
prove bounds on approximation
algorithms for Bin packing.
In fact, this was part of
the PhD thesis of David Johnson.
And throughout his career, he never
stopped being interested in Bin packing.
These are the pioneers.
What happened next?
Next, the problem was NP-complete and
we had constant factor
approximation algorithms.
Then people turned to
average case analysis.
That was big in the 1980s in particular.
So, you know, in the worst case you
cannot solve the problem exactly.
But what do you do if the items
are drawn from sound investigation?
Initially, there was some
work by this familiar guy,
whose name you should know by now,
and Karmarkar.
They did some initial work
analyzing some algorithms for
Bin packing in the average case.
Then more work was done by many people.
There's a whole set of mathematicians and
computer scientists working on
average cases Bin packing, and
analyzing particular Bin packing
algorithms in the average case.
Prominent among them is David Johnson.
And I didn't have enough room here to get
pictures of everyone who got involved in
this direction, but I just wanted
to get a picture of Lisa McGeoch.
All right.
That's average case analysis.
Approximation schemes.
Asymptotic approximation schemes.
What can we say about this?
Oh, we learned something else this week.
We learned that if we cannot
find an approximation scheme,
because distinguishing between two
bins and three bins is anti-complete.
Then, we can change the definition and
focus on asymptotic instances.
And then, this was done first by
Fernandez de la Vega and Lueker,
who invented adaptive rounding and
used it to design the algorithm,
which we saw designed and
analyzed in this class.
But you can do better than this.
After this, shortly afterwards,
Karmarkar and Karp took the same ideas and
used a better, much better,
more sophisticated analysis, and
used linear programming in a sophistic
fashion, sophisticated fashion.
And they managed to get an algorithm
using a number of bins that is,
at most, OPT plus a little bit.
What is that little bit?
Big O of log squared OPT.
When OPT goes to infinity,
log squared OPT is much less than OPT.
So this is almost optimal.
It's a much finer way to view Bin packing.
Then, nothing for
30 years, until 2015.
Rebecca Hoberg and Thomas Rothvoss.
Look at how young they
are compared to the others.
That's because they've been
doing this work in 2015.
They reduced the log
squared OPT to log OPT.
So this is an even better
asymptotic approximation scheme.
So I wanted to show you this because
we just started studying approximation
algorithms and already,
we are at the level of current research.
If we were learning more about inner
programming, about discrepancy theory,
and about clever rounding,
then we'd be able to read this paper and
understand current
research on Bin packing.
So now, probably you've hear
enough of this problem,
enough of Bin packing,
enough of working with numbers.
In the next chapter we'll start
working on graph problems again.